This is one of those stories from the internet that may or may not have happened, but it is still instructive. A younger man and his wife invited his mother to stay with them during the COVID lockdowns, just as a lot of families did so they could all have a little extra human contact at that time. Both the man and his wife were fortunate to have jobs where they could work from home, so during the day they would be working on their laptops most of the time. One day the mother asked why they played on their computers instead of trying to get real jobs. They explained that they did have real jobs and that they were working from home. The mother seemed to accept their answer at first, but this exchange would repeat a few more times.

Finally one morning, they woke up to find their laptops were missing. The couple asked the mother about them, and she proudly declared that she had thrown them out. She told them that they needed to get off their butts and get real jobs, and declared that they would someday thank her for this. Unfortunately, the garbage truck had already come and gone.

So both the man and his wife made a call, but not to a hiring agency to get a "real job". They both called their very legitimate employer to report the destruction of their laptops and that they would need replacements sent. They then proceeded to kick the mother out of their house. The mother had more troubles than just having to go back to her own home. The couple's employer did not appreciate having its property destroyed, and so their very well funded legal team sued her for damages.

This is not a story about how old people are stupid. And the mother in this story wasn't lacking in intelligence per se. Rather, she had a very particular idea of how the world worked that was formed when she was younger, and would not let anyone persuade her that anything had truly changed. She was stuck in her old ways and refused to accept how the world now worked.

I've been thinking about this story a lot lately. So much of my professional world has changed in the past year. AI has changed the way I do my job, and has drastically changed the way I look for a job. In my opinion, it hasn't been for the better quite yet, as none of us--recruiters, hiring managers, or candidates--have fully figured out how to function in this new reality. But to insist that I can continue to just cast my resumes into the void and expect my experience to speak for itself would be ludicrous. I have to conduct my job search in a way that works in today's reality (networking, the LinkedIn algorithm, ATS and keywords), and not in the way I might wish it still worked. And once I do land that job, the company that's lucky enough to have me will need me to program like it's 2026, where there will be a bigger focus of learning to read and debug code rather than writing it directly. Because just like in the above story, being set in your ways can be very destructive.